# Capstone CRM Application
## Introduction
This is my Computer Science Capstone project. This is a Customer Relationship Management Application or a CRM/CRUD App. The problem or challenge that is addressed with this application is basic record keeping without any prior knowledge of database management. Users can quickly add customer information for safe and secure keeping. The potential impact is that users can use the system in any way they choose. This system was built to handle generic information that can change to the business needs and this in turn will provide flexibility in the market. This capstone project is an exploration into the world of web development, harnessing the power of Django, a high-level Python web framework, Bootstrap for intuitive front-end development, and MySQL for efficient database management. The aim is to design and implement a robust, scalable, and user-friendly web application. This endeavor will not only put our technical skills to the test but also provide us with a practical understanding of the various aspects of software development. As we embark on this journey, we look forward to the challenges and learning opportunities that lie ahead.
## Built With
* [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) - The web framework
* [Bootstrap 5](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/getting-started/introduction/) - The frontend toolkit
* [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/) - The database management system
### Methodology
Using the Django documentation for most of my research, I was able to develop most of my project. I also used YouTube video tutorials to implement Bootstrap and MySQL into the project. Django is an easy-to-use but sophisticated Python web framework that allows rapid development of a clean and logical design application. Bootstrap is a front-end toolkit that uses HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to quickly create features such as forms, tables, navigation, and buttons. Bootstrap is a front-end toolkit that uses HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to quickly create features such as forms, tables, navigation, and buttons. MySQL is a relational database management system. It is used to store, manage, and retrieve structured data. I chose Django because I have worked with Python in the past. Django connects super easily to any database management system. MySQL was my choice because I had never worked with it before. Bootstrap was chosen for its simplicity in integrating features.
## Implementation
The implementation process was straightforward. I started the project by using Django commands in the terminal to set up my directory and project files. Once the project files were created, the next step was to setup MySQL and connect it to Django and all this can be done by using specific commands to create a specific username and password that is added to the Django settings.py file. The next step was to create the database which was done by using a python file that had the username and password and using the import mysql.connector I connected the username and password to a variable called ‘database’ that was then passed to an object that was then executed with a string(“CREATE DATABASE CRM_db”). After that file was compiled and run, the database and mysql were connected to my Django project. The next phase was then to start building the project. The main Python files used to build a Django app were ‘urls’, ‘views’, ‘models’, and ‘forms’. The ‘urls’ file has all the address bar ‘paths’. The ‘views’ file is where all the defined functions are located this file is probably the most important as it has the basic set of instructions that allow the application to fully function correctly. The ‘models’ file is where we define the ‘Record’ class that holds all of the variables associated with the database for example, first name, last name, address, email etc. The ‘forms’ file was created to define how the ‘Register New User’ signup form and the ‘Add New Record’ form. This file helped for when I created the html files that used these forms I only have to use one line of code for forms to be added to the html file. The next step was to build all my html files in the ‘templates’ folder. Working with Bootstrap I was able to quickly make the html files using code snippets in Bootstraps documentation. The design was all done using the tool kit provided with Bootstrap. The front-end design involved a lot of trial and error just plugging in things that may look good and some things that did not look good. Overall, the implementation was simple and the project was tremendously fun to work on.
## Project Images
The images of the final project are located in the [images](https://github.com/TobeyTobes/CRM_App/tree/main/images) folder. I have also added diagrams and the project roadmap I created during the planning phase of the project.

## Conclusion
In conclusion, this capstone software project has successfully demonstrated the effective use of Django, a high-level Python web framework, in conjunction with Bootstrap for front-end development and MySQL for database management. The project has showcased the power of these technologies in creating robust, scalable, and user-friendly web applications. The experience gained from this project has not only honed our technical skills but also enriched our understanding of the practical aspects of software development. We believe that the knowledge and skills acquired from this project will be invaluable in our future endeavors in the field of software development. We look forward to exploring more advanced features and functionalities in Django, Bootstrap, and MySQL in our future projects.
